===== POLICY PDF PAGE 1 =====
Office Number 244, De Kleetlaan 5BC, 1831 Diegem, BELGIUM
specialtyeu@pulse-insurance.eu  www.pulse-insurance.eu
Pulse (Europe) is a trading name of Classic Financial Solutions BV.
Authorised and regulated by the FSMA, Belgium, No. 41241 and deemed authorised and regulated by the FCA.
Group Travel Insurance
This Certificate is a legal contract between the Assured &/or Insured Person and Lloyd’s Insurance Company S.A.
(herein called the Underwriters). This Certificate and any Schedule, Endorsements and Clauses should be read as if
they are one document. The Underwriters acceptance of this risk is based on the information presented to being a
fair presentation of the Assured’s &/or Insured Persons Business including any unusual or special circumstances
which increase the risk and any particular concerns which have led the Assured &/or Insured Person to seek
insurance. Any reference to the singular will include plural and vice versa. Any reference to any statute or statutory
instrument will include modifications or re-enactment thereto. Any heading in this Certificate is for ease of reference
only and does not affect its interpretation. Please ensure you examine your documents thoroughly to ensure it
meets with your requirements, if not, contact your insurance advisor without undue delay.
The Underwriters will provide the insurance described in this Certificate subject to the terms and conditions for the Period of
Insurance shown and any subsequent period for which the Assured &/or Insured Person shall pay the Underwriters shall agree to
accept the premium.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 2 =====
Group Travel Insurance
2
INDEX
Any One Accident / Incident Limit, ..................................................................................................................5
Conditions, ......................................................................................................................................................36
Endorsements, ..................................................................................................................................................5
General Definitions,.........................................................................................................................................  9
General Exclusions and Conditions, ...............................................................................................................35
Holiday Inclusion Clause, ............................................................................................................................... 39
How to Make a Claim, .................................................................................................................................... 15
How to make a complaint, .............................................................................................................................19
In the event of Accident or Illness on an Insured Journey, ...........................................................................17
Insured Persons, ............................................................................................................................................... 4
Insuring Clause, .................................................................................................................................................4
Pre Travel Advice & Information, .................................................................................................................. 18
Scale of Compensation for Permanent Partial Disability, .............................................................................26
Schedule of Benefits, ........................................................................................................................................4
Section 1 - Medical Expenses, Repatriation and Emergency Travel Expenses, ........................................... 20
Section 2 - Cancellation, Curtailment, Replacement and Change of Itinerary, ........................................... 22
Section 3 - Baggage, Delayed Baggage and Business Equipment, ................................................................23
Section 4 - Money, Passport, Credit Cards and Rental Vehicle Excess, ........................................................24
Section 5 - Personal Accident, ........................................................................................................................25
Section 6 -Legal Expenses and Personal Liability, ......................................................................................... 30
Section 7 - Hijack, Kidnap and Detention, .....................................................................................................32
Section 8 - Evacuation Insurance, ..................................................................................................................33
Section 9 - Personal Security Specialist Expenses, ........................................................................................34
Section 10 - Corporate Event Cover, ..............................................................................................................35
Special Extensions applying to Section 5 of this Certificate, .......................................................................... 6

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 3 =====
Group Travel Insurance
3
Certificate of Insurance
The Underwriters will provide the insurance described in this Certificate subject to the terms and conditions for the
Period of Insurance shown and any subsequent period for which the Assured &/or Insured Person shall pay the
Underwriters and shall agree to accept the premium.
Certificate No.
CGT P804302600
Assured:
ARROW SHIPPING HELLAS S.A
Address:
Flisvos Marina
Building 6 (1st Floor)
Palaio Faliro
17561
Greece
Broker’s Ref
50228C
Period of Insurance
From 1st September 2026 to 31st August 2027 [both dates inclusive]
Binder Reference:
B1735ND0054525
Premium
€
2,267.50
Insurance Premium Tax
€
340.13
Total
€
2,607.63
In Witness Whereof this Certificate has been signed on:
Date:
03 September 2026
By:

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 4 =====
Group Travel Insurance
4
Insuring Clause
Whereas the Insured Persons shall from time to time during the Period of Insurance be required to journey beyond the confines of the
of their Usual Country of residence or Secondment on the Assured’s behalf, which journeys are hereinafter called the “Periods of
Travel”, the Insurers agree to pay in accordance with the terms, conditions, provisions, limitations and exclusions hereof in respect
of Accident, illness, loss, damage or mishap sustained by or affecting the Insured Persons whilst committed to or engaged upon such
Periods of Travel.
Insured Persons
All Directors and Employees of the Assured as per Schedule declared to Underwriters, including Spouse/Partner and Dependent Child/Children (where the
appropriate premiums have been paid).
Benefits & Sums Insured
Section 1 Medical Expenses, Repatriation and Emergency Travel Expenses
€ 10,000,000
Section 2 Cancellation, Curtailment, Replacement and Change of Itinerary
€ 15,000 any one person      (€250,000 any one incident)
Section 3 Baggage, Delayed baggage and Business Equipment
€ 15,000     (single item limit €3,000)
Business Equipment (Up to maximum €3,000)
Section 4 Money, Travellers' Cheques, Passports, Travel Documents, Credit Cards and Rental Vehicle Excess
€ 10,000     (cash limit €3,000)
(Rental Vehicle Excess Up to €1,000 any one event €25,000 aggregate limit any one period of Insurance)
Section 5 Personal Accident *
1. Accidental Death.......................................................................................
€ 50,000
2. Loss of one limb........................................................................................
€ 50,000
3. Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye......................................
€ 50,000
4. Loss of two limbs......................................................................................
€ 50,000
5. Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of both eyes...................................
€ 50,000
6. Loss of one limb and Total and irrecoverable loss of sight in one eye...
€ 50,000
7. Permanent Total Disablement...................................................................
€ 50,000
8. Temporary Total Disablement...................................................................
€ Nil
9. Temporary Partial Disablement.................................................................
€ Nil
10. Paraplegia................................................................................................
€ 50,000
11. Quadriplegia………………………………………………………………………………………..
€ 125,000
12. Triplegia………………………………………………………………………………………………
€ 85,000
13. Hemiplegia………………………………………………………………………………………….
€ 50,000
*Unless more specifically insured under Part [A] of this Certificate
Compassionate Travel ExtensionCapital Benefit €30,000
Section 6 Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
Legal Expenses
€50,000
Personal Liability
€5,000,000
Section 7 Hijack, Kidnap and Detention
Consultants Costs                         Up to
€100,000 any one person
(Maximum  €250,000 any one period of Insurance)
Daily Benefit
€500 per day     (up to maximum 50 days)
Section 8 Evacuation
Evacuation and Repatriation Costs
Up to €50,000
Section 9 Personal Security Specialists Expenses
Any One Insured Person
Up to €10,000
During the Period of Insurance
Up to €250,000
Section 10 Guests and Corporate Event Benefit
Capital Benefit:  Up to €25,000
Holiday Inclusion Clause & Winter Sports Inclusion Clause (detailed on page 49):
Applicable to the following Insured Persons:-   Not Included
Usual Country of residence/Secondment Travel Extension
Applicable to the following Sections of this Certificate: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 10

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 5 =====
Group Travel Insurance
5
Endorsements
IT IS HEREBY NOTED AND AGREED THAT the geographical limits under this Certificate are deemed to be Worldwide
IT IS FURTHER NOTED AND AGREED THAT cover under this Certificate EXCLUDES all travel to areas of War, Unrest or Disruption
unless declared and Agreed by Underwriter’s prior to travelling to such areas.
Definition of Area of War, Unrest or Disruption
For Business Travel: A Country or region to which the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advise against “ALL”
travel along with Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Gaza, Israel & Lebanon.
For Holiday Travel: A Country or region to which the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advise against “ALL” or
“All but Essential” travel. www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice along with Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Gaza, Israel & Lebanon.
IT IS FURTHER HEREBY NOTED AND AGREED THAT cover under this Certificate EXCLUDES any Kidnap which occurs in
Afghanistan, Belarus, Colombia, Gaza, Israel, Iraq, Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Russia, Somalia, Ukraine,
Venezuela, Yemen or any other region or country to which the Insured Person has travelled where the United Kingdom Foreign
and Commonwealth Office has advised against “all travel or all travel due to the threat of kidnap” (or other similar advice for
Insured Persons not resident in the United Kingdom) prior to the commencement of the trip.
Any One Accident / Incident Limit:
The maximum amount Underwriters will pay in the aggregate under this Certificate in respect of all Insured Persons suffering
Bodily Injury following an Accident in the same Accident or series of Accidents contributed to, caused by, or consequent upon
the same original cause, event or circumstance.
Underwriters total liability shall not exceed in all the following limit:
€10,000,000
In the event of any one incident exceeding this figure, the Underwriters liability in respect of each Insured Person shall be
proportionately reduced until their total liability does not exceed said limit

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 6 =====
Group Travel Insurance
6
Special Extensions applying to Section 5 of this Certificate
Bereavement Counselling
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of Death for which Benefit 1 - Accidental Death - is paid the Underwriters will pay
necessary expenses with the Underwriters prior written consent for either telephone counselling or face to face
counselling or cognitive behavioural therapy as deemed appropriate by the Underwriters to the Insured Person’s
Spouse or Child up to €250 per week up to a maximum of €5,000 any one person.
Coma Benefit
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which results in the
continuous unconscious state of the Insured Person, there is a payment of €350 for each full week of continuous
unconsciousness, up to a maximum of 104 weeks.
Counselling
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of Disablement for which all benefits (excluding Benefits 1, 8 or 9) are paid the
Underwriters will pay necessary expenses with the Underwriters prior written consent for either telephone counselling
or face to face counselling or cognitive behavioural therapy as deemed appropriate by the Underwriters to the Insured
Person’s Spouse or Child up to €250 per week up to a maximum of €5,000 any one person.
Dependents Benefit
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of Death for which Benefit 1 - Accidental Death - is paid the Benefit is increased by
2% per dependent child up to the age of 18 or up to the age of 25 years if in full time education.
Disability Assistance
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of Disablement for which all benefits (excluding Benefits 1, 8 or 9) are paid the
Underwriters will pay necessary expenses with the Underwriters prior written consent to make alterations to the
Insured Person’s home, car or usual place of work as a direct result of the Disablement suffered up to a maximum of
€25,000
Facial Disfigurement
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of permanent facial disfigurement with visible scar tissue of at least 1 centimetre in
length in the area from the hairline to and including the lower jaw and ears Underwriters will pay the following benefit:
A) 1 to 5 centimetres in length €1,250
B) Over 5 centimetres in length covered up to the amount specified in the scale of compensation on page 5.
Fracture benefit
In the event of Bodily Injury being sustained by an Insured Person that results in a Fracture that does not result in a
claim payment under items 1-7 (as detailed on page 4), Underwriters pay the Assured at their request the amount
specified below dependent on the Fracture sustained. Fracture of the:
hip or pelvis (excluding coccyx or thigh)
€1,000
femur or heel
€500
skull (excluding jaw and nose), lower leg, collar bone, ankle, elbow, upper
or lower arm (including the wrist but not a Colles’ fracture)
€500
spine (vertebrae but excluding coccyx)
€1,000
Up to a maximum payment of €5,000 for all Fractures. The Company will pay a Fracture benefit only once during the
Period of Insurance if the Insured Person is diagnosed with osteoporosis prior to or as a result of the Accident that
results in a claim under this policy.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 7 =====
Group Travel Insurance
7
Special Extensions applying to Section 5 of this Certificate - continued
Funeral Expenses Benefit
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person/s sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of Death the Underwriters will pay the necessary costs incurred with the
Underwriters prior written consent for funeral expenses up to a maximum of €10,000 any one Insured Person/s.
Hospitalisation Benefit
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person/s sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of the Insured Person/s being admitted to hospital on the recommendation of a
Medical Practitioner the Underwriters will pay €350 per full week up to a maximum of 104 weeks any one Insured
Person/s while they are a hospital inpatient.
Post-traumatic stress disorder – Terrorism
If during the Operative Time an Insured Person/s directly witnesses an act of Terrorism whilst travelling on a Publicly
Licensed Conveyance and, without sustaining physical injury, suffers Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (diagnosed by a
Medical Practitioner) which, within 6 months of witnessing such act, results in their Temporary Total Disablement,
Underwriters will pay the Assured at their request 50% of the amount payable for item 8 up to a maximum payment
of €300 per week and for a maximum period of 16 weeks or the period of Temporary Total Disablement, whichever is
the lesser. This extension is only applicable where a Sum Insured is shown on the Schedule under item 8 – Temporary
Total Disablement - of Section 5 that covers the Insured Person/s.
Prosthesis cover
In the event of Bodily Injury being sustained by an Insured Person/s that results in a valid claim for items 2 to 6 Under
Part A, and Part B, Section 5 as shown on the Schedule and the Sum Insured for those items is more than €50,000,
Underwriters will pay the Assured at their request up to a maximum of €10,000 in all for the costs of providing a
prosthesis recommended by the treating Medical Practitioner for the lost limb(s).
Psychological Assistance
In the event of Bodily Injury being sustained by an Insured Person/s that results in a valid claim for items 2 to 6 under
Part A, and Part B, Section 5 for more than 50% of the Sum Insured shown on the Schedule, Underwriters will pay the
Assured at their request up to €5,000 in all for the cost of professional psychological counselling treatment for the
Bodily Injury provided that such treatment is started within 12 months of the date of the Accident and it is prescribed
by the treating Medical Practitioner.
Relocation Expenses
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person/s sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within 2 years
is the sole and independent cause of Disablement for which all benefits (excluding Benefits 1, 8 or 9) are paid, the
Underwriters will pay necessary expenses incurred with the Underwriters prior written consent for stamp duty
payments, solicitors’ and estate agents’ fees and removal costs necessitated as a direct and necessary result of the
Insured Person/s having to relocate as a direct result of the Disablement suffered up to a maximum of €25,000
Recruitment Costs following Suicide
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person/s commits suicide and General Exclusion 1 of the Certificate is applied
the Underwriters will pay the necessary expenses incurred in engaging a replacement Director or Employee up to a
maximum of €10,000 any one Insured Person/s.
Retraining Expenses Benefit
If during the Operative Time the Insured Person/s sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years
is the sole and independent cause of the Insured Person/s suffering Permanent Total Disablement from the Insured
Person/s’s usual occupation in the Business for which the Benefit is paid the Underwriters will pay reasonable
expenses incurred with the Underwriters prior consent in retraining the Insured Person/s for an alternative occupation
with the Assured up to a maximum of €15,000

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 8 =====
Group Travel Insurance
8
Special Extensions applying to Section 5 of this Certificate – continued
Visiting expenses
In the event that an Insured Person/s is admitted to a Hospital as an Inpatient due to an Accident and the Hospital is
more than 10 miles (16 kilometres) from their normal place of residence in the United Kingdom or their Permanent
Country of Residence, Underwriters will pay at the request of the Assured the cost of transporting any person to visit
the Insured Person/s, up to a maximum payment in all of €2,500. This is payable in addition to any other claimable
expense under this policy.
Visitors / Corporate Event Benefit
To pay up to €25,000 per person for all benefits (excluding Benefits 1, 8 or 9) under Part A in the event of a Visitor or
Guest of the Assured sustaining Bodily Injury following an Accident whilst legally on any of the Assureds’ premises in
a Business capacity or while participating in any Corporate Event organised by the Assured

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 9 =====
Group Travel Insurance
9
General Definitions
The following definitions apply to this policy and shall have the same meaning wherever they appear unless amended by a
section definition. In the case of any conflict between the general definitions, the definitions in the section shall prevail.
Accident
means a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific, external event which o c c u r s  a t  a n  i d e n t i f i a b l e  t i m e  a n d  l o c a t i o n  d u r i n g  t h e  P e r i o d
o f  I n s u r a n c e .  I t  s h a l l  a l s o  i n c l u d e  e x p o s u r e  r e s u l t i n g  f r o m  a  m i s h a p  t o  a  c o n v e y a n c e  i n  w h i c h  t h e  I n s u r e d  P e r s o n  i s  t r a v e l l i n g .
Annual Salary
The total annual basic salary including overtime but excluding bonus or commission payments payable by the Assured to the Insured
Person at the date Bodily Injury is sustained. Overtime payments shall be based on the average payments made during the 12
months immediately prior to the date of Bodily Injury.
Baggage
Personal effects belonging to or in the custody of the Insured Person at the time of the loss excluding Business Equipment.
Biological
Any pathogenic micro-organism or biologically produced toxin.
Bodily Injury
means identifiable physical injury which
i.
is caused by an Accident, and
ii.
s o l e l y a n d i n d e p e n d e n t l y o f a n y o t h e r c a u s e e x c e p t i l l n e s s d i r e c t l y r e s u l t i n g f r o m , o r m e d i c a l o r
s u r g i c a l t r e a t m e n t r e n d e r e d n e c e s s a r y b y , s u c h B o d i l y I n j u r y , r e s u l t s i n t h e I n s u r e d P e r s o n ’ s d e a t h
o r d i s a b l e m e n t a s p r o v i d e d f o r u n d e r t h i s I n s u r a n c e w i t h i n t w e n t y - f o u r c a l e n d a r m o n t h s o f t h e d a t e
o f  s u c h  A c c i d e n t
I n s o f a r a s c o v e r r e l a t e s t o P a r t [ B ] o n l y , B o d i l y I n j u r y s h a l l a l s o i n c l u d e exposure resulting from a m i s h a p t o a c o n v e y a n c e i n
w h i c h t h e I n s u r e d P e r s o n i s t r a v e l l i n g ; t h e d a t e o f s u c h m i s h a p s h a l l b e d e e m e d t o b e t h e d a t e o f t h e A c c i d e n t c a u s i n g
s u c h  B o d i l y  I n j u r y .
Business
The Business description as declared to Underwriters.
Business Equipment
Business equipment belonging to the Assured and which is in the custody of the Insured Person at the time of the loss
Chemical
Any artificially created chemical toxin or compound.
Child / Children
Any child of an Insured Person who is unmarried and dependent
A)
under 18 years of age and under 25 years of age if in full-time education
B)
on the Insured Person due to reason of diagnosed permanent mental or physical disability
Close Relative
Wife, husband, civil partner or partner, mother, mother-in-law, father, father-in-law, step parent, step-parent-in-law, sister, sister-
in-law, brother, brother-in-law, daughter, daughter in-law, son, son in-law, stepchild, foster child, grandparent, grandchild, uncle,
aunt, nephew, niece, cousin, fiancé, fiancée and adopted child.
Computer System means any computer, hardware, software, communications system, electronic device (including, but not
limited to, smart phone, laptop, tablet, wearable device), server, cloud or microcontroller including any similar system or any
configuration of the aforementioned and including any associated input, output, data storage device, networking equipment or
back up facility, owned or operated by you or any other party.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 10 =====
Group Travel Insurance
10
General Definitions - continued
Corporate Event
Any event arranged and funded in whole or in part by the Assured with the primary function of entertaining Directors, Employees or
Guests of the Assured in a Business or leisure capacity.
Country of Secondment
The Country where and Insured Person temporarily resides under contract with the Assured for at least (6) months and accepted by
the Underwriter’s in a Country of Secondment Endorsement attached to and forming part of the certificate.
Country of Permanent Residence
The Country where an Insured Person resides indefinitely or where the Insured Person has the intent to reside indefinitely.
Cyber Act means an unauthorised, malicious or criminal act or series of related unauthorised, malicious or criminal acts, regardless
of time and place, or the threat or hoax thereof involving access to, processing of, use of or operation of any Computer System.
Cyber Incident
any error or omission or series of related errors or omissions involving access to, processing of, use of or operation of any
Computer System; or any partial or total unavailability or failure or series of related partial or total unavailability or failures to
access, process, use or operate any Computer System.
Delayed Baggage
Reasonable expenses incurred by the Insured Person during an Insured Journey to purchase essential replacement clothing or
articles due to the Insured Person’s personal property being delayed for at least (4) hours.
Director (including Partners and Members)
A serving director (other than a non-executive director) of the Assured:
i)
Whose details have been notified to Companies House in accordance with Section 288 of the Companies Act 1985 or any
statutory amendment, modification or re-enactment of such Act or Regulations where the Assured is a company registered
in the United Kingdom.
Ii) a member of a limited liability partnership as defined under the Limited Liability Partnership Act 2000.
Iii) any person who has signed the partnership deed of the Assured.
Emergency Repatriation Expenses
The additional cost of transportation including the cost of medical attendants necessarily incurred in transporting the Insured Person
to an appropriate hospital or nursing home or to the Country of Permanent Residence or Country of Secondment if applicable, if
recommended by Healix International, in conjunction with the local attending medical practitioner.
Employee
Any person under a contract of service or apprenticeship with the Assured, or any person the Assured has the right to instruct in
his/her performance.
Evacuation
The necessary emergency evacuation of an Insured Person from a country or area within a country in which they are travelling other
than their normal country of residence as recommended by
A)
the British Government via the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or
B)
any legally empowered regulatory government or local authority in the country or region in which the Insured Person is
travelling
or
C)
the Insurers assistance provider – Healix International.
Evacuation Expenses
The additional cost of travel accommodation and other expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by the Insured Person in
Evacuating the Insured Person to their normal country of residence or the nearest place of safety.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 11 =====
Group Travel Insurance
11
General Definitions - continued
External Journey
Any Journey undertaken by the Insured Person on the Business of the Assured (including incidental holiday taken in conjunction
with the trip) which commences during the Period of Insurance and involves travel from the Insured Person’s normal country of
residence. Travel from the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man to any destination will be regarded as an External Journey involving
travel from the Insured Person’s Country of Permanent Residence.
Cover operates from the departure of the Insured Person from the Insured Person’s residence or normal place of Business in their
normal country of residence (whichever occurs first) until arrival back at such residence or normal place of Business (whichever
occurs last) at the end of the Journey. The duration of an External Journey shall not exceed 12 months unless otherwise as agreed in
writing with the Assured. Secondments and other long stay trips must be agreed prior to departure and an additional premium may
be charged.
Face/Facial
The area bordered by the natural hairline surrounding the forehead, the front of the ears and the lower jaw.
Fracture
A breach in the continuity of the bone caused by an Accident which is identified by an x-ray or in the case of a fracture which is
unable to be x-rayed, by confirmation from a doctor.
Gross Weekly Wage
The gross average weekly equivalent of the Insured Person’s Annual Salary.
Guest
Any person whom the Assured consents to be covered under this certificate other than a Child or Visitor
Hemiplegia
The Permanent total loss of use of one side of the body.
Hi-Jack
The unlawful seizure or control of an aircraft or conveyance (or the crew thereof) in which the Insured Person is travelling as a fare
paying passenger.
Illness shall mean sickness or disease which first declares itself during the Period of Insurance and which results in
the Insured Person’s disablement.
Incident
One occurrence or all series of occurrences, consequent upon or attributable to, one source or original cause.
Insured Journey
Defined as either an Internal Journey or an External Journey.
Internal Journey
A journey undertaken by the Insured Person on the Business of the Assured (including incidental holiday taken in conjunction with
the trip) which commences during the Period of Insurance and involves travel within the Insured Person’s normal country of
residence but only if the journey requires the Insured Person to obtain overnight accommodation, involves a rail journey or a flight.
Insurance operates from the departure of the Insured person from the Insured Person’s residence or normal place of Business in
their normal country of residence (whichever occurs first) until arrival back at such residence or normal place of Business (whichever
occurs last) at the end of the journey.
Kidnap
The wrongful abduction and detention of an Insured Person against their will or by deception, by a person or group demanding
payment by the Assured in exchange for the release of that Insured Person or a claim by a person or group demanding such a
payment, to have carried out such a wrongful abduction and kidnapping.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 12 =====
Group Travel Insurance
12
General Definitions - continued
Legal Expenses
A)
Any fees, expenses and other disbursements reasonably incurred by a solicitor, firm of solicitors or any other appropriate
qualified person, firm or company appointed to act on behalf of the Insured Person including costs and expenses of expert
witnesses as well as those incurred by the Underwriter’s in connection with such claims or procedures;
B)
Any costs for which an Insured Person is legally liable following an award of costs by any court or tribunal and any costs
following an out of court settlement made in connection with any claim or legal proceedings.
Loss of Eye(s)
Loss of Eye(s) shall include total and irrecoverable loss of sight, which shall be deemed to have occurred:
A)
in both eyes when the condition is shown to the satisfaction of the Underwriter’s to be permanent and without
expectation of recovery and the Insured Person’s name has been added to the Register of Blind Persons on the
authority of a fully qualified ophthalmic specialist:
B)
in one eye when the degree of sight remaining after correction is 3/60 or lesson the Snellen Scale and the
Underwriter’s are satisfied that the condition is permanent and without expectation of recovery.
Loss of Limb(s)
A)
in the case of a lower limb by permanent physical severance at or above the ankle or permanent total loss of use of an
entire leg or foot;
B)
In the case of an upper limb loss by permanent physical severance of a hand at or above the wrist
Money and Credit Cards
Coins, banknotes, bankers drafts, bills of exchange, postal and money orders, signed travellers and other cheques, letters of credit,
luncheon vouchers, money orders, phone cards, travel tickets, debit/credit cards, charge cards, gift tokens and coupons which are
taken or acquired on an Insured Journey by the Insured Person and are intended for personal expenditure only.
Medical Expenses
All reasonable costs for hospital, surgical or other diagnostic or remedial treatment given or prescribed by a Medical Practitioner
necessarily incurred outside the Insured Person’s Country of Permanent Residence or Country of Secondment. Dental, optical and
routine pregnancy expenses are excluded unless incurred as a result of an emergency
Medical Practitioner
Any legally qualified medical practitioner who is registered or licensed to practice medicine or dentistry under the laws of the
country in which they practice; other than an Insured Person/s or a member of the Insured Person/s immediate family.
Nuclear
Any fissile material emitting ionizing radiation or radioactivity.
Paraplegia
The Permanent total loss of use of two legs bladder and rectum.
Permanent Total Disablement
A)
Where the Insured Person is gainfully employed by the Assured, and is below state retirement age or above 16 years of age,
Permanent Total Disablement means disablement caused other than by Loss of Limb(s), Loss of Eye(s), Total Loss of Hearing
or Total Loss of Speech which will in all probability entirely prevent the Insured Person from engaging in his/her usual
occupation for the remainder of his/her life.
B)
Where the Insured Person is not gainfully employed by the Assured, or is above the state retirement age or below 16 years
of age, Permanent Total Disablement means disablement, caused other than by Loss of Limb(s), Loss of Eye(s), Total Loss of
Hearing or Total Loss of Speech which will in all probability entirely prevent the Insured Person from engaging in any and
every occupation for the remainder of his/her life.
Quadriplegia
The Permanent total loss of use of all four limbs bladder and rectum.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 13 =====
Group Travel Insurance
13
General Definitions - continued
Rental Vehicle
Any vehicle rented by the Assured and/or Insured Person pursuant to a licensed rental vehicle agreement, for or during an Insured
Journey.
Replacement Value
The full value to replace personal property and/or electronic Business equipment without deduction for wear and tear or
depreciation
Spouse
The legally married spouse or civil or cohabiting partner of an Insured Person whom the Assured consents to be covered by this
Insurance
Temporary Partial Disablement
Temporary disablement which prevents the Insured Person from engaging in more than 60% of his/her usual occupation.
Temporary Total Disablement
Temporary disablement which completely prevents the Insured Person from engaging in or giving attention to all elements of
his/her occupation.
Total Loss of Hearing
Total, permanent and irrecoverable loss of hearing.
Total Loss of Speech
Total, permanent and irrecoverable loss of speech.
Travel Expenses
Reasonable additional costs necessarily incurred for:
A)
travel, sustenance and accommodation expenses of up to two (2) relatives or friends of the Insured Person who on medical
advice is required to travel or remain with the Insured Person;
B)
funeral expenses incurred in the burial of the Insured Person outside the Country of Permanent Residence or Country of
Secondment.
C)
Costs incurred in transporting the Insured Person’s body or ashes, and personal property back to their Country of Residence
or Country of Secondment.
D)
Travel expenses incurred by the Insured Person in returning to attend the funeral of a close relative in the Country of
Residence or Country of Secondment.
Terrorism
Any act including but not limited to the use of force or violence or threat thereof of any person or group(s) of persons whether
acting alone or on behalf of or in connection with any organisation(s) or government(s) committed for political religious ideological
or similar purposes including the intention to influence any government and/or to put the public or any section of the public fear.
Triplegia
The Permanent total loss of use of three limbs.
United Kingdom
England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland
Unrest or Disruption
A Country or region to which the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advise against “ALL” or “All but Essential” travel.
www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
Visitor
Any person legally on the Assureds premises other than
A) Directors or Employees of the Assured
B) any other Insured Person more specifically insured under this Insurance
C) members of the emergency services

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 14 =====
Group Travel Insurance
14
General Definitions - continued
War
War shall mean armed conflict between nations including forces acting for any international authority, whether war be declared
or not, invasion, civil war, any attempt to usurp power, or any activity arising out of an attempt to participate in military force
between nations.
We/Us/Our
Shall be deemed to mean Underwriters.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 15 =====
Group Travel Insurance
15
How to Make a Claim
Things you and the Insured Person must do
You must comply with the obligations set out below. If we determine that any claim you make under this insurance has been
adversely impacted directly by failure to comply with the obligations below, we may refuse to pay your claim or reduce the amount
of any payment we make for the claim.
1.
In the event of an incident which causes or may cause a claim under this insurance, you must as soon as practicable and
up to a maximum of 6 months from the date of such event, notify Crawfords..
2.
In the event of Accident or Illness abroad which may lead to hospital treatment or curtailment of your trip, contact the
dedicated Healix International 24 Hour Medical Emergency Helpline (details on page 30).
3.
In the event of the Insured Person’s death resulting or alleged to result from an Accident, notice must be give as soon
as practicable and up to a maximum of 6 months from the date of such event, to your broker.
4.
The Insured Person must provide us or our medical adviser with the necessary authorisation to access or obtain all the
Insured Person’s medical records, notes and correspondence referring to the subject of a claim or a related pre-existing.
The medical adviser must, for the purpose of reviewing the claim, be allowed to examine the Insured Person as we
consider necessary.
5.
You must provide your broker with all information we may reasonably require including a fully completed claim form.
6.
If in the course of an Insured Journey an Insured Person is unlawfully seized our response consultants, Constellis, should
be contacted (please refer overleaf).
Registering your claim
In the event of you having to make a claim under this Certificate, please register your claim using the following online claim form:
Online Claim Form
If the link doesn’t work, please copy and paste the full address into your web browser:
https://us-fnol.claims.global/PulseInsurance
You can also register your claim over the phone: +32 2 714 03 60
How we deal with your claim
You will be asked to provide supporting documents alongside your completed claim form. Once all documents have been received,
your claim will be assessed. If the documents provided are accepted/rejected, you will be notified by email. Sometimes it may be
necessary for additional information or documents to be requested. If this is the case, you will be notified by email.
If you have any queries regarding your claim, please contact the following:
Crawford TPA, Blarenberglaan 3c, Mechelen, Vlaanderen 2800 Belgium
www.crawco.co.uk
PulseClaims@Crawco.co.uk
+32 2 714 03 60

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 16 =====
Group Travel Insurance
16
Fraudulent claims clause
1)
If the Assured or Insured Person/s makes a fraudulent claim under this insurance contract, Underwriters:
a)
Are not liable to pay the claim; and
b)
May recover from the Insured any sums paid by Underwriters to the Assured in respect of the claim; and
c)
May by notice to the Insured treat the contract as having been terminated with effect from the time of the fraudulent act.
2)
If Underwriters exercise their right under clause 1) c) above:
a)
Underwriters shall not be liable to the Insured in respect of a relevant event occurring after the time of the fraudulent act. A
relevant event is whatever gives rise to Underwriters’ liability under the insurance contract (such as the occurrence of a loss, the
making of a claim, or the notification of a potential claim); and
b)
Underwriters need not return any of the premiums paid.
3)
If this insurance contract provides cover for any person who is not a party to the contract (“a covered person”), and a
fraudulent claim is made under the contract by or on behalf of a covered person, the Insurer may exercise the rights set out in
clause 1) above as if there were an individual insurance contract between the Insurer and the covered person. However, the
exercise of any of those rights shall not affect the cover provided under the contract for any other person.
Nothing in these clauses is intended to vary the position under the Insurance Act 2015.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 17 =====
Group Travel Insurance
17
In the event of Accident or Illness on an Insured Journey
In the event of Accident or Illness abroad which may lead to hospital treatment or curtailment of your trip, contact the dedicated
Healix 24 Hour Medical Emergency Helpline. The assistance company will be solely responsible for all decisions on the most
suitable, practical and reasonable solution to any problem, and all such assistance is subject to the prior approval of said assistance
company
Healix International
Esher Green, Esher, Surrey, KT10 8AB, United Kingdom
24/7 Tel: +44 (0) 208 608 4227
Fax: +44 (0) 208 481 7826
24/7 Email: internationalhealthcare@healix.com
Website: www.healix-international.com
Important Data That Should Be Provided To Healix International

Inform the Healix Co-ordinator that you/the patient are insured with Canopius and provide them with your
comprehensive contact details and company name

The patient’s full name, their sex, nationality and date of birth

The patient’s country of domicile

The patient’s occupation and the name of their line manager where relevant

The Contract of Insurance number shown on the schedule

The Period of Insurance shown on the schedule

A brief summary of the incident/medical problem, giving the patient’s current location, medical condition, as well as
the names and contact details for any medical providers and treating medical team

Whether any costs have been incurred or deposits made and to which entity/person
Important Notice
Upon contacting Healix, you will be issued with a unique assistance case number, which should be quoted at all times. This is
especially relevant when submitting any written correspondence such as medical reports or other supporting documentation.
Under the Data Protection Act, we have a legal duty to protect any personal information that we collect from you and the Act
sets rules and conditions which we have to stick to when gaining and using information about you. https://www.gov.uk/data-
protection/the-data-protection-act
Failure to contact Healix International to obtain authorisation may prejudice the claim and may mean that not all the costs
involved will be paid. The first named Assured and the Insured Person should not attempt to find their own solution and then
expect full reimbursement from the Insurers without prior approval first having been obtained from Healix International. In the
event that liability cannot be established at the outset of a medical emergency it is agreed that the first named Assured will
guarantee payment until such a time that liability can be accepted by Insurers.
In the event of an Insured Person being kidnapped
If in the course of an Insured Journey an Insured Person is unlawfully seized our response consultants, Constellis, should be
contacted.
In the United States of America:                +1 713 918 6401
In the Rest of the World:                             +44 (0)20 7240 3237
Web-site:                                                         www.constellis.com

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 18 =====
Group Travel Insurance
18
Pre Travel Advice & Information
For full and comprehensive pre travel advice by Country please go to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office website
https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice where you will find information on the following subjects:
The Healix Travel Oracle App is your ultimate travel safety companion. Developed by leading security and medical experts, it
provides you with the most up to date travel information and advice, as well as real time alerts on breaking news globally.
Installation and Registration
The Healix Travel Oracle App can be downloaded onto your smart phone from the Apple App store or Google Play store.
Google Play Link https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=air.com.maxwelllucas.TravelOracle
Apple Store Link https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/healix-travel-oracle/id783071105
Register as a new user with the policy number for your company: CNP201125
Your password must be:
•
Between 8-20 characters
•
Contain at least one upper and lower case letter
•
At least one number and a character from the following: ! @ # $ % ^ & * ( ) - + ? | = } { : ; " ,
The app allows travellers to easily request emergency assistance or send a mayday alert to Healix and a designated person such
as a family member or HR representative.
There is also comprehensive pre travel advice including Personal and Property Security, Security Advice for Female Travellers,
Natural Hazards and Identity Protection as well as access to Healix’s Travel Angel e learning modules.
The app can also provide you with global incident alerts.
Access to the Travel Oracle Portal (LINK) is also provided: https://traveloracle.healix.com/canopius
Healix Travel Oracle portal is designed to provide you with the best up-to-date information and alerts about your travel
destination. It offers complete country guides to give you in depth knowledge about your location, as well as tips and training on
how to stay safe while overseas.
1. Complete Registration Form to create an account
2. Enter Policy Number CNP201125
3. Click “Register”

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 19 =====
Group Travel Insurance
19
How to make a complaint
Our aim is to ensure that all aspects of your insurance are dealt with promptly, efficiently and fairly. At all times we are
committed to providing you with the highest standard of service.
If you have any questions or concerns about your policy or the handling of a claim you should, in the first instance, contact the
Broker who issued this insurance to you
In the event that you remain dissatisfied and wish to make a complaint, you can do so at any time by referring the matter to
either:
Crawford TPA, Blarenberglaan 3c, Mechelen, Vlaanderen 2800 Belgium
Website:
www.crawco.co.uk
E-mail:
PulseClaims@Crawco.co.uk
Tel:
+32 2 714 03 60
Any complaint should be addressed to:
Service Manager
Operations Team
Lloyd’s Insurance Company S.A.
Bastion Tower
Marsveldplein 5
1050 Brussels
Belgium
Tel: +32 (0)2 227 39 39
E-mail: enquiries.lloydsbrussels@lloyds.com
Your complaint will be acknowledged, in writing, promptly.
A decision on your complaint will be provided to you, in writing, within 50 (fifty) calendar days of the
complaint being received.
Should you remain dissatisfied with the final response or if you have not received a final response within 50
(fifty) calendar days of the complaint being received, you may be eligible to refer your complaint to the
Hellenic Consumers Ombudsman, the Bank of Greece or the General Secretariat of Consumer Affairs in
Greece. The contact details of the above organisations are as follows:
Hellenic Consumers Ombudsman
144 Alexandras Avenue
114 71, Athens
Greece
Tel: +30 210 646 0862
Fax: +30 210 646 0414
E-mail: grammateia@synigoroskatanaloti.gr
Website: www.synigoroskatanaloti.gr/index.html
Complaints referred to the Hellenic Consumers Ombudsman must be submitted to it within 3 (three)
months of you becoming aware of the act or omission that gave rise to the complaint.
Bank of Greece
21 E. Venizelos Avenue
102 50, Athens
Greece
Tel: +30 210 320 1111
Fax: +30 210 323 2239/2816

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 20 =====
Group Travel Insurance
20
E-mail: complaints@bankofgreece.gr
General Secretariat of Consumer Affairs
Kaniggos Sq.
10181 Athens
Greece
E-mail: info@efpolis.gr
Website: www.efpolis.gr/
If you have purchased your contract online you may also make a complaint via the EU’s online dispute
resolution (ODR) platform. The website for the ODR platform is www.ec.europa.eu/odr.
The complaints handling arrangements above are without prejudice to your right to commence a legal
action or an alternative dispute resolution proceeding in accordance with your contractual rights.
LBS0036
01/01/2019

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 21 =====
Group Travel Insurance
21
Section 1 - Medical Expenses, Repatriation and Emergency Travel Expenses
The Cover
If during an Insured Journey an Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident or falls ill the Insurers will indemnify
the Assured on behalf of the Insured Person in respect of Medical Expenses, Repatriation and Emergency Travel Expenses which
are necessarily incurred as a direct result
The Insurers will pay
up to the appropriate Sum Insured shown in the Schedule for all Medical Expenses, Repatriation  and Emergency Travel
necessarily incurred in respect of any one Insured Person
Special Definitions applying to this Section
Medical Expenses
The cost of medical surgical or other remedial attention treatment or appliances given or prescribed by a Medical Practitioner
and all hospital nursing home and ambulance charges
A
 incurred on an External Journey and within two years of the date that the need for treatment first arises
B
 incurred within the Insured Person’s Country of Permanent Residence on return from an External Journey for an
amount not exceeding
i)
€50,000 in respect of inpatient charges
ii)
€50,000 in respect of out patient charges
per Insured Person and incurred within three months of the Insured Person’s return to their normal country of residence
Dental and optical expenses are included only if necessitated by Bodily Injury following an Accident or incurred for emergency
treatment
Pregnancy or childbirth expenses are included but only if necessitated by
i)
Bodily Injury following an Accident or
ii)
incurred for pregnancy related illness or complications requiring emergency treatment
Emergency Travel Expenses
The additional cost of travel and accommodation necessarily and reasonably incurred during an Insured Journey upon the
recommendation of Healix International relative to
A
the Insured Person
B
any Business colleague relative or friend who have necessarily to travel to or remain with or escort the Insured Person
less any saving by or recovery available to the Assured or Insured Person concerned
Repatriation Expenses
The necessary cost of transporting the body or ashes and the Insured Person’s Baggage and Business Equipment to their normal
country of residence
Special Extensions applying to this Section
Funeral Expenses
If during the course of an External Journey the Insured Person dies the Insurers will pay up to a maximum of €10,000 for the
necessary cost incurred with the Insurers prior written consent for funeral expenses
Hospitalisation
If during the course of an External Journey the Insured Person  is admitted to a hospital on the recommendation of a Medical
Practitioner the Insurers will pay €50 per full 24 hours up to a maximum of 52 weeks while the Insured Person is a hospital
 inpatient

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 22 =====
Group Travel Insurance
22
Medical Expenses, Repatriation and Emergency Travel Expenses - continued
Repatriation of household goods
If during the course of an External Journey exceeding six months the Insured Person dies the Insurers will pay up to a maximum
of €2,000 for the necessary cost incurred with the insurers prior written consent of repatriating household goods.
Search and Rescue Costs
If during the course of an External Journey the Insured Person is reported as missing and a search or rescue is instigated by
approved rescue or police authorities because
A
it is known or believed that the Insured Person has sustained Bodily Injury following an Accident or fallen ill
B
weather and safety conditions are such that it becomes necessary to instigate a search or rescue to prevent the Insured
Person from sustaining Bodily Injury following an Accident or falling ill the Insurers will pay up to a maximum of
€25,000 for the necessary and reasonable costs incurred
Exclusions applicable to this Section
The Insurers will not pay
1
for any Medical Expenses incurred in the Insured Person’s normal country of residence other than as provided under
Special Definition Medical Expenses B above
2
any claim if the Insured Person is travelling against medical advice given by a Medical Practitioner or for the purpose of
obtaining medical treatment or convalescent care.
3 any claim where the Insured Person has received a terminal prognosis.
4
any claim handled by Healix International where it is subsequently found that the person receiving treatment or incurring
costs is not an Insured Person on an Insured Journey in which event such costs will be the sole responsibility of the Assured
5
for any claim as a result of War within the insured persons country of residence.
6.
for any claim as a result of War occasioned by any Nuclear, Chemical or Biological Cause.
7
any expense incurred after twenty-four calendar months from the date of Accident or Illness.
8
any expense incurred by an Insured Person for treatment that continued for a period of three months from the date the
first expense was incurred which was not notified to Healix International.
9
any Repatriation Expenses incurred without the prior approval of Healix International.
10
any Search & Rescue Expenses incurred without the prior approval of Healix International except in any situation or
circumstance where it has not been reasonably practical to do so.
11
Dental or Optical expenses unless incurred as a result of any emergency.
12
any expenses which are recoverable from any other insurance policy in the name of the Assured or Insured Person or
which are recoverable from any national insurance programme which is applicable to the Insured Person.
13
any loss or expense arising from an Insured Person committing or attempting to commit suicide or intentionally inflicting
self-harm except for Repatriation Expenses following suicide.
14
any claim that involves travel to areas to which the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, World Health Organisation or
relevant local health authority advise against travel, unless declared and agreed by Underwriters prior to travelling to such areas.
15
any claim where suitable evidence from a Medical Practitioner is not provided as proof of the necessity to cancel or
curtail a trip

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 23 =====
Group Travel Insurance
23
Section 2 - Cancellation, Curtailment, Replacement and Change of Itinerary
The Cover
If the Assured or the Insured Person is forced to
A
Cancel an Insured Journey
B
Curtail an Insured Journey
C
Replace an Insured Person on an Insured Journey
D
Rearrange to resume an Insured Journey
E
Change the itinerary of a pre booked Insured Journey
as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside the Assured’s or the Insured Person’s control the Insurers will indemnify
the Assured for
A
deposits and advance payments (on a proportionate basis in respect of Curtailment)
B
charges for transport
C
charges for accommodation and sustenance
D
any other charges
reasonably and necessarily incurred and that are forfeit under contract or are not otherwise recoverable
The Insurers will pay
up to the cost of the Insured Journey including those trips on the Assured’s Business funded wholly or in part by air miles but
not exceeding the appropriate Sum Insured in respect of any one Insured Person subject to the Incident Limit as detailed in the
Schedule
Exclusions to this Section
The Insurers will not pay
in respect of any claim as a result of
1
disinclination to travel
2
the Assured's financial circumstances
3
the financial failure or omission or neglect of any provider (or their agent) of transport or accommodation
4
regulations made by any Government or public authority
5
withdrawal from service temporarily or permanently of any means of transport on the orders or recommendation of
any Port Authority or the Civil Aviation Authority or any similar body in any country
6
delay due to strike or industrial action which existed or of which advance notice had been given on or before the date
on which the journey was booked
7
mechanical breakdown or failure of the means of transport on which the Insured Person is travelling or intends to
travel unless it has been delayed by at least 2 hours
8
circumstances involving a person who is travelling or intending to travel against the advice of a Medical Practitioner or
for the purpose of obtaining treatment
9
circumstances more specifically Insured under the Evacuation Insurance Section of this Certificate
10
Any claims where suitable evidence from a Medical Practitioner is not provided as proof of the necessity to cancel or
curtail a trip.
Travel Delay Inconvenience Benefit
This only attaches where a Section 2 Sum Insured is specified for the Insured Person/s;
In the event that the Insured Person/s are delayed because of the late departure of an aircraft, sea vessel or other publicly
licensed form of passenger transport in which they had previously booked to travel occurring as the result of any of the
following contingencies:
Strike, industrial action, hijack, terrorist act, criminal act, bomb scare, riot, civil commotion, fire, flood, earthquake, landslide,
avalanche, adverse weather conditions, Accident or mechanical breakdown - provided always that such contingency had not
occurred, commenced or been announced before the booking was made in respect of the flight, voyage or journey thus affected
then to pay as follows:
(i) Outward journey at commencement of the Period of Travel €50 for the first completed 8 hour period that transport
departure is delayed and €50 for each subsequent completed hour, up to a maximum of €500 per claim.
(ii) All subsequent outward journeys during the Period of Travel , up to a maximum of €150 per claim.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 24 =====
Group Travel Insurance
24
Section 3 - Baggage, Delayed Baggage and Business Equipment
The Cover
If during an Insured Journey an Insured Person’s Baggage is lost damaged stolen or destroyed the Insurers will indemnify the
Assured on behalf of the Insured Person concerned for the cost of repair or replacement
The Insurers will pay
the cost of replacement as new except for items that can be economically repaired including clothing where the cost of repair
will be paid up to the appropriate Sum Insured shown in the Schedule in respect of any one Insured Person less any amount
recoverable from any transport provider
Special Extensions applying to this Section
Automatic reinstatement of Sum Insured after a loss
In respect of any one Insured Person the Sum Insured shall not be reduced by the amount of any loss during any one Insured
Journey and no additional premium shall be payable for such automatic reinstatement of cover
Business Equipment
If during an Insured Journey Business Equipment is lost damaged stolen or destroyed the Insurers will indemnify the Assured for
the cost of repair or replacement less Value Added Tax recoverable by the Insured up to €3,000
Delayed Baggage
In the event of the Insured Person's Baggage being lost for more than 12 hours during the outward or onward journeys, the
Insurers will reimburse the Assured on behalf of the Insured Person concerned up to €1,000 towards the cost of purchasing
emergency replacement clothing toilet requisites and similar items any amount paid under this extension will be deducted from
any subsequent amount payable under the Baggage Insurance Section for the same loss
Exclusions to this Section
The Insurers will not pay
1
more than €3,000 in respect of any one item pair or set
2
loss of or damage to household effects.
3
loss of or damage to ‘valuables’ contained in Baggage whilst such Baggage is in the custody of Carriers and outside the
control of the Insured Person   For the purposes of this exclusion ‘valuables’ shall mean: jewellery, items composed of precious
metals or stones, furs, watches, binoculars, telescopes, photographic, audio, computer, telecommunications and video
equipment
4
for loss or damage theft or destruction of Money and Credit Cards bonds negotiable instruments or securities of any
kind
5
for loss or damage or destruction caused by
a)
atmospheric or climatic conditions or any other gradually operating cause
b)
any process of cleaning dyeing repairing or restoring
c)
delay confiscation or detention by order of any Government or public authority
6
for mechanical or electrical breakdown or derangement
7
for any Baggage that is lost damaged stolen or destroyed while being shipped as freight or
under a bill of lading
8
In respect of Valuables and Business Equipment where the loss has not been reported to the police or other recognised
authority within 48 hours of discovery of the loss
9
For any loss or damage whilst left unattended, unless in hotel room; safe; apartment; holiday residence; event venue,
which were locked and shows signs of forced entry or unlawful access.
10
Loss of personal property from any unattended motor vehicle unless the personal property was out of sight in a glove
box or luggage compartment and the vehicle was locked and shows signs of forced entry or unlawful access
It is a condition of cover under this Section that:-
The Insured Person shall at all times exercise reasonable care in the supervision of the Insured property.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 25 =====
Group Travel Insurance
25
Section 4 - Money, Travellers' Cheques, Passports, Travel Documents, Credit Cards and Rental Vehicle Excess
The Cover
The Insurers will reimburse the Assured on behalf of the Insured Person concerned if during
A
an Insured Journey or the 120 hours immediately preceding its commencement or subsequent to its completion an
Insured Person loses Money, Travellers’ Cheques, Driving Licences, and Travel Tickets.
B
an Insured Journey an Insured Person suffers financial loss solely as a result of a Credit Card being stolen or lost and
subsequently used by any person other than the Insured Person or a member of the Insured Person's family
The Insurers will pay
up to the appropriate Sum Insured detailed in the Schedule in respect of any one Insured Person, including reasonable expenses
directly consequent upon such loss.
Passport Replacement
To indemnify the Insured Person up to 25 per cent of the Sum Insured in respect of loss of passport occurring during the Period
of Travel, including reasonable additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred during the Period of Travel to obtain a
replacement.
Business Documents and Records
To indemnify the Insured Person up to 25 per cent of the Sum Insured in respect of the cost of replacing or restoring Business
documents and records the property or responsibility of the Assured or the Insured Person, following loss or damage during the
Period of Travel.
Special Extension applying to this Section
Automatic reinstatement of Sum Insured after a loss
In respect of any one Insured Person the Sum Insured shall not be reduced by the amount of any loss during any one Insured
Journey and no additional premium shall be payable for such automatic reinstatement of cover
Exclusions to this Section
The Insurers will not pay
1
for losses exceeding €3,000 in respect of coin, bank and currency notes per Insured Person, per event.
2
for shortages or loss due to error omissions depreciation in value or confiscation or detention by customs or other
lawful officials or authorities
3
any claim for loss of a Credit Card unless the Assured or the Insured Person has complied with all the terms and
conditions under which the card was issued where reasonably able to do so
4
for losses not reported to the police or similar authority within 48 hours of discovery of the loss
5
loss of money contained in Baggage whilst such Baggage is in the custody of Carriers and outside the control of the
Insured Person
It is a condition of cover under this Section that:-
The Insured Person shall at all times exercise reasonable care in the supervision of the insured money.
Rental Vehicle Excess
If during an Insured Journey the Assured and/or Insured Person sustains loss of or theft of or damage to a Rental Vehicle
Underwriters shall indemnify the Assured and/or Insured Person in respect of the monetary amount that the Assured and/or
Insured Person is legally liable to pay as an excess or deductible as stated in the Rental Vehicle Agreement for which cover in
respect of loss of or theft of or damage to a Rental Vehicle is in force up to the Sum Insured per Journey
Exclusions
Underwriters shall not pay for
1.
Any loss of or damage arising out of use of a Rental Vehicle which falls outside of the terms of the Rental Agreement.
2.
Where the Assured and/or Insured Person has not taken out any insurance offered to cover the Rental Vehicle as part
of the Rental Agreement.
3.
Any loss or damage to the Rental Vehicle where it is not proven that the damage occurred during the course of the
Rental Agreement.
4.
Any loss or damage to the tyres of a Rental vehicle.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 26 =====
Group Travel Insurance
26
Section 5 - Personal Accident
Schedule of Benefits
This Certificate insures only those Items that have an amount entered against them.
1. Accidental Death *
€ to pay the Sum Insured
2. Permanent Total Disablement as defined within
€ to pay the Sum Insured
3. Permanent Partial Disability in accordance with the
Scale of Compensation specified within: Amounts up to
€ to pay the Sum Insured
4. Paraplegia
€ 50,000
5. Quadriplegia
€ 125,000
6. Triplegia
€ 85,000
7. Hemiplegia
€ 50,000
8. Temporary Total Disablement, as defined within – per week
€ to pay the Sum Insured
9. Temporary Partial Disablement, as defined within – per week
€ to pay 50% of the Sum Insured
Benefit in respect of Items 8 and 9, Temporary Disablement, shall be payable for such period or periods during which the
Insured Person shall be disabled, up to but not beyond 104 weeks from the date on which he first becomes disabled.
Medical expenses incurred in respect of Items 8 or 9 in excess of any other valid or collectable insurance, incurred in respect of
Items 1 to 9 within the above time limits specified for such Items will in addition be paid, up to but not exceeding 25% of the
total amount of the claim admitted under those Items. Up to Maximum €15,000
*For Children under 16 years of age at the date of the Accident the Sum Insured for Death is limited to €20,000 and the Weekly
Benefits are deleted.
Coma Benefit
If during an Insured Journey the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury which results in the continuous unconscious state of the
Insured Person, there is a payment of €350 for each full week of continuous unconsciousness, up to a maximum of 104 weeks.
Dependents Benefit
If during an Insured Journey the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years is the sole
and independent cause of Death for which Benefit 1 is paid the Benefit is increased by 2% per dependent child up to the age of
18 or up to the age of 25 years if in full time education.
Hospitalisation Benefit
If during an Insured Journey the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years is the sole
and independent cause of the Insured Person being admitted to hospital on the recommendation of a Medical Practitioner the
Underwriters will pay €350 per full week up to a maximum of 104 weeks any one Insured Person while they are a hospital
inpatient.
Retraining Expenses Benefit
If during an Insured Journey the Insured Person sustains Bodily Injury following an Accident which within two years is the sole
and independent cause of the Insured Person suffering Permanent Total Disablement from the Insured Person’s usual
occupation in the Business for which the Benefit is paid the Underwriters will pay reasonable expenses incurred with the
Underwriters prior consent in retraining the Insured Person for an alternative occupation with the Assured up to a maximum of
€15,000

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 27 =====
Group Travel Insurance
27
Conditions applicable to Section 5
The Underwriters shall only be liable:-
(a)  under Item 1 of the Schedule of Benefits if death occurs within twenty-four calendar months of the date of the Accident.
(b) under Item 2 of the Schedule of Benefits if the period of Total Disablement giving rise to the claim for this Item commences
within twenty-four calendar months of the date of the Accident and lasts for twelve consecutive calendar months or more.
(c) under Item 3 of the Schedule of Benefits if the disability giving rise to the claim under this Item manifests itself within twenty-
four calendar months of the date of the Accident and lasts for twelve consecutive calendar months or more.
In respect of any Accident covered under this Insurance where the Insured Person is Employed by the Assured on a contract of
fixed duration, the Benefit payment period in respect of items 8 & 9 of the Schedule of Benefits will cease at the expiry of the
contract or as otherwise defined in the Personal Accident specification, whichever is the lesser.
In respect of any Accident covered under this Insurance no benefit will be payable under more than one of the items in the
Schedule of Benefits in respect of the consequences of one Accident, and no Temporary Total Disablement benefit will become
payable until the total amount has been ascertained and agreed. Where any payment is made for Temporary Total Disablement
benefit, the amount paid will be deducted from any lump sum subsequently payable in respect of the same Accident.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 28 =====
Group Travel Insurance
28
Conditions applicable to Section 5 - continued
In the event that an Accident covered under this Insurance should result in the death of the Insured Person within twenty-four
calendar months of the date of such Accident and prior to the definite settlement of a claim for disablement as provided for
under Items 2 and 3 of the Schedule of Benefits, there shall be paid instead of such claim for disablement the Sum Insured payable
for Item 1 Death.
A n y c l a i m f o r m e d i c a l e x p e n s e s h e r e u n d e r s h a l l b e p a y a b l e o n l y t o t h e extent of the difference between the total amount of such
claim as calculated i n a c c o r d a n c e w i t h t h e p r o v i s i o n s s t a t e d i n t h e S c h e d u l e o f B e n e f i t s a n d t h e t o t a l o f a n y a m o u n t s d u e f r o m
o t h e r  i n s u r a n c e s  a n d  m e d i c a l  s c h e m e s  covering the same expenses.
If the Insured Person disappears during the Period of Insurance and is not found within twelve months of disappearing, and that
sufficient evidence is produced that leads Underwriters inevitably to the conclusion that the Insured Person has sustained Bodily
Injury and that such injury has caused the Insured Person’s death, the Sum Insured for Item 1 Death shall become payable
hereunder. If at any time after such payment the Insured Person shall be found to be living, the sum thus paid shall be refunded
to the Underwriters.
If at the expiry date of the Period of Insurance the Insured Person is subject to the control of persons effecting a hijack or kidnap,
cover u n d e r o f t h i s I n s u r a n c e w i l l c o n t i n u e w i t h o u t a d d i t i o n a l premium for a further period not exceeding twelve calendar
months in all until the Insured Person has been released and has travelled direct from the place of his detention to his home or
original destination.
Evidence Required
In connection with any claim:
A) all medical certificates, reports, information and evidence required by the Underwriters to substantiate that claim must be
supplied at the Assured &/or Insured Person Person’s own expense and in such form as the Underwriters may reasonably require;
B) the Insured Person must undergo a medical examination and provide medical evidence to the Underwriters (at the Underwriters
expense) as often as the Underwriters may reasonably require following receipt of that claim; and
C) no benefit shall be payable in respect of that claim where the Insured Person fails to undergo such medical examination or
provide such medical evidence as referred to in B above.
Compassionate Travel
If on the recommendation of Healix International cover will be extended to include up to three relatives or friends of the Insured
Person if they are required to travel to or remain with the Insured Person as a result of the Insured Person sustaining Bodily
Injury or becoming ill during an Insured Journey outside of their Country of Permanent Residence the Underwriters shall provide
the following Benefit per Insured Person shown below
Insured Persons:
Up to three named relatives or friends of the Insured Person
Operative Time:
Whilst travelling to or remaining with an Insured Person
Benefit per Insured Person
Sum Insured
1 .
Accidental Death
€30,000
2.
Permanent Total Disablement
€30,000
3.
Permanent Partial Disablement
€30,000

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 29 =====
Group Travel Insurance
29
Exclusions applicable to Section 5
Exclusions applicable to this section
The Underwriters shall not be liable for death or disablement directly or indirectly resulting from :
1. the Insured Person’s suicide, attempted suicide or intentional self injury
2. the Insured Person’s deliberate exposure to exceptional danger (except in an attempt to save human life).
3. the Insured Person’s own criminal act.
4. the Insured Person engaging in riding or driving in any kind of race.
5. the Insured Person’s engaging in any form of operational duties as a member of the armed forces.
6. the Insured Person engaging in mountaineering or rock-climbing normally requiring the use of ropes or guides.
7. the Insured Person engaging in aerial activities other than air travel as a passenger.
8. radioactive contamination.
9. human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and/or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and/or any HIV or AIDS related
illness.
10.
 a
Illness or disease (not resulting from Bodily Injury following an Accident)
b
any naturally occurring condition or degenerative process
c
any gradually operating process
d
post traumatic stress disorder or any psychological or psychiatric condition (not resulting from Bodily Injury following an
Accident)

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 30 =====
Group Travel Insurance
30
Section 6 -Legal Expenses and Personal Liability
Legal Expenses
The Cover
Underwriters will pay, up to a maximum of €50,000 Any One Claim any one Insured Person/s, in connection with any one event
giving rise to a claim for legal costs arising as a result of pursuing claims for compensation and damages resulting from an Insured
Person/s’s death, Illness or Bodily Injury during a trip.
Conditions
1. Underwriters will appoint a suitably qualified legal representative to act on you or an Insured Person/s’s behalf; and
2. You and your Insured Person/s must follow our advice or that of our appointed legal representative in handling any claim.
3. As a condition precedent to be indemnified under this section, you must inform us within 90 days of the occurrence of any
event that may give rise to a claim.
4. You or an Insured Person/s must tell us if an offer is made to settle the legal proceedings and must not negotiate or agree to
settle the dispute without having our prior agreement. If you or an Insured Person/s does not accept a reasonable offer
Underwriters may not continue to support the claim.
Exclusions
Underwriters will not be liable under this Section for:-
1. any claim where Underwriters or our legal representative believe that an action is not likely to be successful or if Underwriters
believe that the costs of taking action will be greater than any award.
2. the costs of making any claim against us, our agents or representatives or against any tour operator, carrier or any person with
whom an Insured Person/s has travelled or arranged to travel.
3. any costs or expenses which are based directly or indirectly on the amount of any award.
4. the costs of following up a claim for Bodily Injury, loss or damage caused by or in connection with an Insured Person/s’s trade,
profession or Business, under contract or arising out of an Insured Person/s possessing, using or living on any land or in any
buildings.
5. any claims arising out of you or an Insured Person/s owning, possessing, or using motorized/mechanically-propelled vehicles,
watercraft or aircraft of any description, animals, firearms, explosive devices or weapons.
6. any claims arising out of your or an Insured Person/s’s deliberate, criminal, malicious or illegal act.
7. Legal proceedings in constitutional international or supranational courts or tribunal other than the European Court of Justice
and the Commission and Court of Human Rights.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 31 =====
Group Travel Insurance
31
Section 6 - continued
Personal Liability
The Cover
Underwriters will pay, up to a maximum of €5,000,000 Any One Insured Person/s, if they become legally liable for damages
incurred by an Insured Person/s which are caused by an Accident that happened during the trip, and leads to claims made against
an Insured Person/s as a result of:
1. Bodily Injury to a person who is not a member of an Insured Person/s’s family or household, a travelling companion, a
colleague, or employed by you;
2. loss of or damage to any property which does not belong to you or an Insured Person/s, is not in the charge of, and is not in
the control of an Insured Person/s or any member of an Insured Person/s’s family, household, colleague or employee;
Conditions
1. No admission offer promise payment or indemnity may be made or given by you or an Insured Person/s or on yours or an
Insured Person/s’s behalf without our written agreement of the Company
2. You must give us notice of any cause for a legal claim against an Insured Person/s as soon as you or an Insured Person/s
becomes aware and send us any other documents relating to any claim within 30 days.
3. Underwriters may at any time pay you or an Insured Person/s the amount for which a claim can be settled up to the limit
shown in the schedule (less any sums already paid as damages) Underwriters will then be under no further liability in respect
thereof other than for costs and expenses incurred prior to us making such a payment
4. As a condition precedent to your right to be indemnified under this section you shall give us notice within 30 days with full
particulars of any claim or occurrence which may give rise to a claim.
5. Every letter, claim form, writ, summons and process must be forwarded to us immediately.
6. You shall notify us immediately upon an Insured Person/s becoming aware of any prosecution, inquest or inquiry in connection
with any occurrence which may give rise to a claim.
7. Underwriters shall be entitled to take over the defence or settlement of any claim or to prosecute any claim in an Insured
Person/s’s name for our own benefit and shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings and the settlement of
any claim.
Exclusions
Underwriters will not be liable under this Section for:-
1. anything caused directly or indirectly by:
a. injury, loss or damage arising from:
i.
the ownership or use of any aircraft, horse-drawn or mechanical/motorized vehicles, watercraft (other than rowing
boats, punts or canoes), animals, firearms, explosive devices or weapons;
ii.
An Insured Person/s’s occupation or ownership of any land or buildings;
iii.
The carrying out your trade, profession or Business;
iv.
Racing of any kind;
v.
any deliberate, criminal, malicious or illegal act;
2. liability covered under any other similar insurance.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 32 =====
Group Travel Insurance
32
Section 7 - Hijack, Kidnap and Detention
The Cover
If in the course of an Insured Journey an Insured Person is unlawfully seized the Company will compensate the Assured on behalf
of the Insured Person concerned as detailed below.
Underwriters will pay
in respect of each Insured Person
A
€500 for each day or part thereof (up to a maximum of 50 days)
B
the additional cost of travel and accommodation necessarily incurred as a direct result of the unlawful seizure of the
Insured Person
C
 for expenses necessarily incurred in the engagement of the Company’s security services provider Constellis
D
for expenses necessarily incurred in the engagement of public relations legal and medical advisers with the knowledge
and agreement of the Company up to a maximum of €100,000 per Insured Person and €250,000 any one Period of
Insurance.
Exclusions applicable to this Section
Underwriters will not pay in respect of any claim as a result of:
1.
any fraudulent dishonest or criminal act of the Assured or the Insured Person
2.
expenses incurred under C above without the prior consent and agreement of the Company’s security services provider
Constellis.
3.
expenses incurred under D above without the prior consent and agreement of the Company
4.
any claim handled by Constellis where it is subsequently found that the person incurring costs is not an Insured Person on an
Insured Journey in which event such costs will be the sole responsibility of the Assured
5.
expenses incurred under D above which are more specifically insured under the Medical Repatriation and Emergency Travel
Expenses Insurance Section.
6.
any Kidnap or Kidnap for Ransom which occurs in Afghanistan, Belarus, Colombia, Gaza, Israel, Iraq, Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Philippines, Russia, Somalia, Ukraine, Venezuela, Yemen or any other region or country to which the Insured Person
has travelled where the United Kingdom Foreign and Commonwealth Office has advised against “all travel or all travel due to
the threat of kidnap” (or other similar advice for Insured Persons not resident in the United Kingdom) prior to the
commencement of the Trip.
I f a n i n c i d e n t o c c u r s w h i c h m a y r e s u l t i n a c o v e r e d e v e n t t h e A s s u r e d m u s t c o n t a c t Constellis who are the third party service
providers approved by Insurers
In the United States of America:                +1 713 918 6401
In the Rest of the World:                             +44 (0)20 7240 3237
Web-site:                                                         www.constellis.com
The services can be accessed 24 hours a day 365 days a year, for your protection telephone calls may be recorded or monitored
I f  Constellis h a v e  n o t  b e e n  c o n t a c t e d ,  t h e n  n o  c l a i m  w i l l  b e  p a i d .

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 33 =====
Group Travel Insurance
33
Section 8 - Evacuation
The Cover
If an Insured Person is forced to Evacuate during an External Journey as a direct and necessary result of Evacuation
from any cause outside the Assured’s or the Insured Person’s control the Insurers will reimburse the Assured on
behalf of the Insured Person for all Evacuation Expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred.
The Insurers will pay
up to but not exceeding the appropriate Sum Insured in respect of any one Insured Person subject to the Incident
Limit as detailed in the Schedule, in respect of the additional cost of travel, accommodation and other expenses
necessarily and reasonably incurred by the Assured or Insured Person in evacuating the Insured Person to their
Country of Permanent Residency or nearest place of safety.
Exclusions to this Section
The Insurers will not pay
in respect of any claim as a result of
1
the Assured or the Insured Person violating the laws or regulations of the country in which they are
travelling
2
the Insured Person failing to produce or maintain immigration work residence or similar visas permits or
other relevant documentation for the country to which they are travelling
3
redundancy of the Insured Person or any of the Assured's Directors or Employees
4
the Assured's financial circumstances
5
Evacuation of nationals of the country involved unless they are ordinarily domiciled elsewhere
6
disinclination of the Insured Person to continue an Insured Journey
7
Evacuation undertaken without the prior consent and agreement of the Insurers security service provider
Healix International
8
circumstances more specifically insured under the Cancellation Curtailment Replacement Rearrangement
and Change of Itinerary Insurance Section of this Certificate
9
any claim handled by Healix International where it is subsequently found that the person incurring costs is
not an Insured Person on an Insured Journey in which event such costs will be the sole responsibility of the
Assured
Special Extension applying to this Section
Trauma Risk Management Counselling
If during the Period of Insurance any Insured Person is forced to Evacuate during an External Journey for which a
claim is paid under the Evacuation Insurance Section of this Certificate the Insurers will also pay necessary expenses
incurred with the Insurers prior written consent for trauma risk management counselling to be delivered by the
Insurers provider up to €5,000 any one incident
Special Claims Settlement Condition applicable to this Section
1
The Insurers security services provider Healix International must be informed immediately of any incident
event or circumstance likely to give rise to a claim
2
If an incident occurs which may result in a covered event the Assured must contact Healix International who
are the third party service providers approved by Insurers
Healix International can be accessed as follows:
Telephone:
+44 (0)20 86084052
E-mail:                 internationalhealthcare@healix.com
The services can be accessed 24 hours a day 365 days a year
For your protection telephone calls may be recorded or monitored

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 34 =====
Group Travel Insurance
34
Section 9 - Personal Security Specialist Expenses
The Cover
If during an Insured Journey an Insured Person becomes involved in a Life-threatening Situation the Insurers will
reimburse the Assured in respect of the costs necessarily incurred to employ the services of the Insurers’ security
services provider Healix International in extricating the Insured Person from such Life-threatening Situation
The Insurers will pay
up to the appropriate Sum Insured in respect of any one Insured Person subject to the Incident Limit as detailed in
the Schedule
Special Definition applying to this Section
Life Threatening Situation
Any situation or event occurring on an Insured Journey where the Insurer’s security services advisors Healix
International agree that the Insured Person’s life is potentially in danger.
Special Conditions applicable to this Section
A
Healix International must be informed immediately or as soon as reasonably possible of any situation or
event that may give rise to a claim
B
The Assured and Insured Person must provide Healix International with all information in a timely manner
and must not make or attempt to make arrangements without the reasonable involvement and/or agreement of
Healix International
C
Any extrication must be organised by Healix International who will use the most appropriate method
including if necessary the attendance of a security specialist to accompany an Insured Person if required
Exclusions applicable to this Section
The Insurers will not pay
in respect of any claim as a result of
1
the Life-threatening Situation being directly due to circumstances within the control of the Assured or the
Insured Person
2
any fraudulent dishonest or criminal act of the Assured or the Insured Person
3
circumstances more specifically insured under the Hijack Kidnap and Detention Insurance Section or
Evacuation Insurance Section of this Policy
4
a claim handled by Healix International where it is subsequently found that the person incurring costs is not
an Insured Person on an Insured Journey in which event such costs will be the sole responsibility of the Assured

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 35 =====
Group Travel Insurance
35
Section 10 - Guests and Corporate Event Cover
To pay up to the sum insured in respect of Guests of The Assured sustaining Bodily Injury following an Accident
whilst on any Corporate Event.
Definitions applicable to Section 10
Operative Time
While an Insured Person is travelling directly to and directly from and whilst participating in any Insured Journey or
Corporate Event arranged by the Assured, cover to start from time of leaving their place of residence or place of
work (permanent or temporary), whichever occurs last, and continues until they return to their place of residence or
place of work (permanent or temporary), whichever occurs first.
General Exclusions and Conditions Applicable to Parts [A] and [B] of this Certificate
Exclusions
E x c e p t  w h e r e  t h e  I n s u r e r s '  s p e c i f i c  p r i o r  a g r e e m e n t  h a s  b e e n  o b t a i n e d ,  n o  c o v e r  s h a l l  a t t a c h  h e r e u n d e r  i n  r e s p e c t
o f : -  a n y  P e r i o d  o f  T r a v e l  t o  b e  u n d e r t a k e n  b y  a n  I n s u r e d  P e r s o n  w h o  w i l l  b e  a g e d  8 1  y e a r s  o r  m o r e  a t  t h e  d a t e  o f  i t s
c o m m e n c e m e n t .
General Exclusion applicable to all sections.
The Underwriters shall not be liable for any claim directly or indirectly resulting from:
1. the Insured Person’s suicide, attempted suicide or intentional self injury
2. the Insured Person’s deliberate exposure to exceptional danger (except in an attempt to save human life).
3. the Insured Person’s own criminal act.
4. the use by an Insured Person of a non-prescribed drug or drugs which cannot be legally obtained from a pharmacy or
dispensary.
5. the Insured Person engaging in riding or driving in any kind of race.
6. the Insured Person’s engaging in any form of operational duties as a member of the armed forces.
7. the Insured Person engaging in mountaineering or rock-climbing normally requiring the use of ropes or guides.
8. the Insured Person engaging in aerial activities other than air travel as a passenger.
9. radioactive contamination.
10. human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and/or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and/or any HIV or AIDS related
illness.
11. the Insured Person failing to produce or maintain immigration work residence or similar visas permits or other relevant
documentation for the country to which they are travelling
12. any claim that involves travel to areas to which the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, World Health Organisation or relevant
local health authority advise against all travel.
13. This policy does not provide cover under any circumstances for any Bodily Injury or Illness arising directly or indirectly from
any Cyber Act.
14. for any claim as a result of War within the Insured Person/s country of residence.
15. for any claim as a result of War occasioned by any Nuclear, Chemical or Biological Cause.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 36 =====
Group Travel Insurance
36
Conditions
Information you have given us
In deciding to accept this insurance and in setting the terms and premium, we have relied on the information you have given us.
You must take care when answering any questions that we ask by ensuring that all information provided is accurate and complete.
If we establish that you deliberately or recklessly provided us with false or misleading information we will treat this insurance as
if it had never existed and decline all claims and need not return any of the premiums paid.
However, if we establish that, unknown to you, an Insured Person deliberately or recklessly provided false or misleading
information we shall treat this insurance, in so far as it relates to the Insured Person concerned, as if it had never existed and
decline all claims relating to such Insured Person and need not any of the premiums paid, in so far as it relates to the Insured
Person concerned.
If we establish that you provided us with false or misleading information, but this was not deliberate or reckless, it could adversely
affect your insurance and any claim. For example we may:
• if we provided you with insurance cover which we would not otherwise have offered;
we will be entitled to treat this insurance as if it had never existed and refuse to pay all claims and return the premium
paid.
However, if we establish that, unknown to you, an Insured Person provided us with false or misleading information, but
this was not deliberate or reckless then we shall treat this insurance, in so far as it relates to the Insured Person
concerned, as if it had never existed and refuse to pay claims and return a proportion of the paid premium that relates
to such Insured Person.
• amend the terms of your insurance. We may apply these amended terms as if they were already in place if a claim has been
made; or
• charge you more for your insurance or reduce the amount we pay on a claim in the proportion the premium you have paid
bears to the premium we would have charged you; or
• cancel your insurance in accordance with the “Cancelling this insurance” section below.
We or your broker will write to you if we:

intend to treat this insurance as if it had never existed; or

need to amend the terms of your insurance; or

require you to pay more for your insurance.
Notifying us of any changes or inaccuracies
If you become aware that information you have given us is inaccurate or has changed, you must inform your broker as soon as
practicable.
When we are notified that information you previously provided is inaccurate, or of any changes to that information, we will tell
you if this affects your insurance. For example we may amend the terms of your insurance or require you to pay more for your
insurance or cancel your insurance in accordance with the “Cancelling this insurance” section below.
If you fail to notify us that information you have provided is inaccurate, or you fail to notify us of any changes, this insurance may
become invalid and we may not pay your claim, or any payment could be reduced.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 37 =====
Group Travel Insurance
37
Conditions - continued
Cancelling this insurance
You can cancel this insurance at any time by writing to your broker.
We can cancel this insurance by giving you thirty (30) days' notice in writing. We will only do this for a valid reason (examples of
valid reasons are as follows):

non payment of premium;

a change in risk occurring which means that we can no longer provide you with insurance cover;

non-cooperation or failure to supply any information or documentation we request; or

threatening or abusive behaviour or the use of threatening or abusive language.
Refund of premium
This insurance has a cooling off period of fourteen (14) days from either:

the date you receive this insurance documentation; or

the start of the period of insurance
whichever is the later.
If you cancel this insurance within the cooling off period then, provided you have not made a claim or intend to make a claim, we
will refund in full any premium you have paid.
If this insurance is cancelled outside the cooling off period then, provided you have not made a claim or intend to make a claim,
you will be entitled to a pro rata refund of any premium paid, less a cancellation fee of 20% of total incurred premium at date of
cancellation (subject to a minimum of €50).
If we pay any claim in whole or in part, then no refund of premium will be allowed.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 38 =====
Group Travel Insurance
38
Conditions - continued
Data Protection
Any information you have provided will be dealt with by us in compliance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act 1998. For
the purpose of providing this insurance and the handling of any claims or complaints, we may need to transfer to other parties
certain information which you have provided to us.
Sanctions
We shall not be deemed to provide cover and shall not be liable to pay any claim or provide any benefit hereunder to the extent
that the provision of such cover, payment of such claim or provision of such benefit would expose us to any sanction,
prohibition or restriction under United Nations resolutions or the trade or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of the
European Union, United Kingdom or United States of America.
Choice of law
You and we are free to choose the law applicable to this contract of insurance. Unless specifically agreed to the contrary this
contract of insurance will be governed by the laws of England and Wales and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of
England and Wales.
Rights of third parties
A person who is not a party to this insurance has no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any
term of this insurance but this does not affect any right or remedy of a third party which exists or is available apart from that Act.

===== POLICY PDF PAGE 39 =====
Group Travel Insurance
39
Holiday Inclusion Clause
In respect of the Insured Persons named in the schedule to which this clause is applicable the Insuring Clause is hereby deemed amended
to include as “Periods of Travel” within the meaning and effect of this Insurance all conventional overseas holiday trips that they shall
undertake during the Period of Insurance.
Provided always that at the date of its booking or commencement any such trip is not expected to exceed 60 days in duration; does not
involve hazardous or non-conventional activities and where the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office do not advise against ‘All’
or ‘All but Essential’ travel to the country or region in question:
www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice
Cover in respect of this clause shall attach in accordance with the terms, conditions, provisions, limitations and exclusions of this Insurance,
subject always to the following amendments and additions:
“It is a condition precedent to the attachment of cover hereunder that the Period of Travel shall not have been booked or commenced
contrary to medical advice, nor after receipt of a terminal prognosis, nor wholly or partly for the purpose of obtaining medical treatment or
convalescent care”.
It is a condition of this Inclusion Clause that relevant details of each and every holiday trip insured hereby shall be included in any
declarations submitted to Insurers in connection with the calculation of the premium due under this Insurance or under any renewal or
extension hereof.
Definition: The terms, conditions and limitations of this Inclusion Clause are applicable only to ‘pure’ holiday trips, i.e. where the travel and
accommodation expenses are paid for principally out of the personal or family finances of the Insured Person and where any financial or
other contribution made by the Assured is not conditional upon the performance of business duties during the trip. All trips involving the
performance of specific business duties on
behalf of the Assured and/or trips that are wholly arranged and/or financed by the Assured are included within the original intention of this
Insurance as stated in the Insuring Clause, and are covered in accordance therewith.
Winter Sports Inclusion Clause
It is hereby understood and agreed that this Insurance extends to include the Winter Sports activities of Alpine Skiing, snowboarding,
Nordic Skiing (cross country skiing), tobogganing, glacier skiing and ice skating subject to the following terms and conditions:
Including whilst off-piste provided that the Insured Person is not participating alone or against local authoritative warning or advice.
Excluding any claim resulting from or attributable to competition in any major event on snow or ice, freestyle skiing, ski-jumping, ice
hockey, the use of bobsleighs or skeletons, luge, para skiing, heli-skiing or repetitive travel in ski run helicopters.
Excluding hired winter sports equipment and clothing.
In respect of Skis of up to 5 years limit €350 any one pair. Skis over 5 years
old limit €50 any one pair.
Ski Hire, up to €100 to hire ski equipment if, the Insured Person’s own ski
Equipment is lost or damaged beyond use.
Loss of ski passes.
Unused travel and accommodation expenses extends to include ski passes,
ski lessons, ski hire and clothing hire.
Scuba Diving Inclusion Clause
It is hereby understood and agreed to include Scuba Diving subject to:-
The Insurers shall not be liable for claims arising from Solo Diving, Cave Diving, or Diving for hire or reward or where the Insured Person
dives below 18 metres or 30 metres if the Insured Person holds a British Sub Aqua Club or equivalent certificate.
